Artificial intelligence (AI) is intelligence demonstrated by machines, in contrast to the natural intelligence displayed by humans and animals. Leading AI textbooks define the field as the study of intelligent agents: any device that perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chance of successfully achieving its goals.

Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence that provides systems the ability to automatically learn and improve from experience without being explicitly programmed. Machine learning focuses on the development of computer programs that can access data and use it to learn for themselves.

Deep learning is part of a broader family of machine learning methods based on artificial neural networks with representation learning. Learning can be supervised, semi-supervised or unsupervised. Deep learning architectures such as deep neural networks, deep belief networks, and recurrent neural networks have been applied to fields including computer vision, speech recognition, natural language processing, and bioinformatics.

Natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of linguistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human language. In particular, NLP focuses on how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data. Challenges in NLP frequently involve speech recognition, natural language understanding, and natural language generation.

Computer vision is an interdisciplinary scientific field that deals with how computers can gain high-level understanding from digital images or videos. From the perspective of engineering, it seeks to understand and automate tasks that the human visual system can do. Computer vision tasks include methods for acquiring, processing, analyzing and understanding digital images.

Reinforcement learning is an area of machine learning concerned with how intelligent agents ought to take actions in an environment in order to maximize cumulative reward. Reinforcement learning differs from supervised learning in that correct input/output pairs need not be presented, and sub-optimal actions need not be explicitly corrected.
